# fancy-react package

This is an atom plugin designed to accelerate `React` development, by automating common and repetitive tasks inside a typical React project.

# Supported configuration

The current workflows and generated code are built around a few basic assumptions about how the React project is laid out. It is an obvious enhancement opportunity to support other styles and project layouts.

The current assumptions made are:

- All `React` source code files are located under `client/src`, with corresponding test files located at `client/test`
- Test files are named as `thing.js` -> `thing-test.js`
- Unit test files are using `jest`, `enzyme` and `chai`

# Commands

## `generate`

Start from a source code file containing exported functions and classes, and generate a test file with suites for each export. If the test file doesn't exist, then create it using a sensible path and naming structure.

# Implementation & Dependencies

The plugin makes heavy use of javascript ASTs to process input source code, and to generate output code. Currently the parsing is done using `acorn` and `acorn-jsx`, node construction via `estree-builder`, and generation by `astring`. This is more labor intensive than simple string templates but should allow much richer functionality and opportunity for extension.

# Future items

## Enhancements to `generate`

Let the `generate` command add suites to the existing test file, if it already exists and is partially filled in. This would be acheived by merging the existing set of suites with the ones generated by this tool.

## Wider configuration for project structure

There are many conventions and possible structures for how to lay out a `React` project. For example, maybe you store test files next to source files, or in a subfolder, or maybe you use a different naming format.

## Component creation

Generate a skeleton source code implementation of a new component from an example use of the component tag in a chunk of JSX somewhere.

This should include filling in props by reviewing your example usage.

## Modernise generated code

There are some limitations in the node types currently supported by `estree-builder`. For example, functions are all declared using traditional function syntax, rather than 'fat arrow' style.

## Plugin extension

It should be possible to expose hook points that let others develop plugins that extend this one. For example, other unit test syntax could be provided with, for example, a `fancy-react-jasmine` plugin.

## CLI

There's no reason that these command should only be available within atom. They could be re-exposed by a CLI wrapper that can run outside of atom.
